Documentation update (#92)
QuakeMigrate/QuakeMigrate: docs/tutorials/detect.rst

The migration of the data is performed for each node and timestep in a 4D sense and can be very computationally demanding. For this reason, it is typical to decimate the LUT to reduce the computation time. Multi-core machines or HPC clusters can also be used to split the time period and perform the computation in parallel.

Before you start
===========================

You will need a semi-continuous waveform archive organised in a known way (see `Archive` tutorial), a travel time LUT (as generated in the previous tutorial) and a station file (as used to generate the LUT). You will also need to choose a location to store your results and a name for your run. QuakeMigrate will automatically generate an output structure to store all your results and place this in a folder in your chosen location named as the run name. You may well run QuakeMigrate many times before you reach the final set of parameter values which produce the best results. It is therefore important to choose a clear and documented run-naming-scheme.

> .. note:: Your run name and directory does not have to be the same for the three QuakeMigrate stages (`detect`, `trigger` and `locate`).

Author: OK - had thought it would be more helpful to have them in one PR. I'll do that

hmm - thought I had not added that - will do

OK

::

    # [lowpass (Hz), highpass (Hz), corners]
    onset.p_bp_filter = [2, 9.9, 2] # P-wave filter values
    onset.s_bp_filter = [2, 9.9, 2] # S-wave filter values

High- and low-pass frequencies can be defined for both P- and S-waves separately and are defined in Hertz. Typically S-waves have lower frequency content than P-waves and the horizontal components may have a different seismic-noise frequency content to the vertical component. 

For volcano-tectonic or microseismicity recorded across a local network, good starting values are 2 Hz for the high-pass corner and 10 - 16 Hz for the low-pass filter. These values remove most of the seismic noise associated with the oceanic microseism (periods > 7 s) and reduce high-frequency anthropogenic seismic noise.

.. note:: QuakeMigrate uses a Butterworth filter with customisable high- and low-corners. The filter is applied both forwards and backwards to remove any phase shifts. As such, the effective order is double the user-defined order.

.. note:: Remember to check the Nyquist frequency of your data. An exception will be thrown if you try to filter at frequencies greater than the Nyquist.

> Window lengths
> ------------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Window lengths
--------------
```

::

    # [length of short window (s), length of long window (s)]
    onset.p_onset_win = [0.2, 1.5] # P-wave values
    onset.s_onset_win = [0.2, 1.5] # S-wave values

A good place to start is to choose a short window length equal to 2-3 times the dominant period of the signal you are hoping to capture. The long window values are then much longer than the short window. Typical values are 5-10 times the length of the short window. 

When choosing your parameters, you should experiment with different values using your data before running a `detect` run. A good way to do this is to use a combination of the `Archive` and `STALTAOnset` classes to grab sections of data from your archive and apply different filter and STALTA parameters to it. The data can be manipulated and displayed using `matplotlib` as in the example below.

::

    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    from quakemigrate.signal.onset import STALTAOnset
    from quakemigrate.io import Archive, read_stations

    # define an archive object
    archive_path = "/path/to/archived/data"
    station_file = "/path/to/station_file"
    stations = read_stations(station_file)

>     archive = Archive(archive_path=archive_path, stations=stations,
>                     archive_format="YEAR/JD/STATION")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    archive = Archive(archive_path=archive_path, stations=stations,
                      archive_format="YEAR/JD/STATION")
```

                    
    # read a snippet of data (ideally around a known event)
    starttime = "2018-001T10:00:00.0"
    endtime = "2018-001T10:05:00.0"
    data = archive.read_waveform_data(starttime, endtime, sampling_rate)

    # define the onset function
    onset = STALTAOnset(position="classic")
    onset.p_bp_filter = [2, 9.9, 2]
    onset.s_bp_filter = [2, 9.9, 2]
    onset.p_onset_win = [0.2, 1.5]
    onset.s_onset_win = [0.2, 1.5]]

    # apply the onset function to the data snippet
    onset_data = onset.calculate_onsets(data, log=False)

    # onset data is a numpy array of the P and S onsets
    # to plot the Z-component of a single station
    fig, axs = plt.subplots(3, 1)

>     raw_waveform = data.signal[0, 0, :]

Reviewer: Good to also make clear this will just show the first station.

    filtered_waveform = data.filtered_signal[0, 0, :]
    onset_waveform = onset_data[0, :]
    time = data.times()

    axs[0].plot(time, raw_waveform, 'k-')
    axs[0].set_xlabel('Time [s]')
    axs[0].set_title('Raw data')

    axs[1].plot(time, filtered_waveform, 'k-')
    axs[1].set_xlabel('Time [s]')
    axs[1].set_title('Filtered data')
    

>     axs[2].plot(time, raw_waveform, 'k-')

Reviewer: Should be `onset_data`, not `raw_waveform`

    axs[2].set_xlabel('Time [s]')
    axs[2].set_ylabel('signal-to-noise ratio')
    axs[2].set_title('Onset function')

    plt.tight_layout()
    plt.show()

`Detect` parameters
====================

> The `detect` stage of QuakeMigrate takes relatively few parameters which the user should set before starting the run. These mostly effect the runtime of the detect run and optimising them can dramtically reduce the overall compute time. 

Reviewer: affect* + dramatically*

::

    scan.sampling_rate = 20
    scan.timestep = 120.
    scan.threads = 12

> The sampling rate should be chosen to be the minimum possible given your chosen filter/signal frequency content as a coalesence grid is calculated for each sample. In this case filtering between 2 - 10 Hz was best so it was possible to decimate 100 sps data to 20 sps. 

Reviewer: Technically needs to match the sampling rate of the onset data. Changing this a wee bit.

> The sampling rate should be chosen to be the minimum possible given your chosen filter/signal frequency content as a coalesence grid is calculated for each sample. In this case filtering between 2 - 10 Hz was best so it was possible to decimate 100 sps data to 20 sps. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``sampling_rate`` should be chosen to be the minimum possible given your chosen filter/signal frequency content as a coalescence grid is calculated for each sample. In this case filtering between 2 - 10 Hz was best so one can decimate 100 Hz data to 20 Hz. 
```

or specify what sps stands for

> The timestep parameters is a balance between reducing the number of times data is requested from the `Archive` object and the memory capacity of your machine. As reading data from the hard drive is slow, and limited to one processor, the number of times this is requested should be minimised. However, reading large chunks of waveform data can quickly fill your computers RAM, dramatically slowing the calculation. 

Reviewer: So long as your memory doesn't fill completely, it's not going to majorly slow things (from my experimentation) - we exceed cache space easily with just the LUTs, so will have to frequently go all the way to the DRAM

> The timestep parameters is a balance between reducing the number of times data is requested from the `Archive` object and the memory capacity of your machine. As reading data from the hard drive is slow, and limited to one processor, the number of times this is requested should be minimised. However, reading large chunks of waveform data can quickly fill your computers RAM, dramatically slowing the calculation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``timestep`` parameter is used to balance between reducing the number of times data is requested from the :class:`Archive` object and the memory capacity of your machine. As reading data from the hard drive is slow, and limited to one processor, the number of times this is requested should be minimised. However, reading large chunks of waveform data can quickly fill your computer's RAM, dramatically slowing the calculation.

> Finally, the `threads` parameter controls the number of processors available for detect to use when migrating and stacking the waveform data. This parameter should be set as high as it can be for your machine. For example, a 4-core laptop would be able to use 3 as the `threads` parameter, while a 128 core HPC machine can use a lot more (see below for perhaps a better use of an HPCs processing power to speed up calculation time).

Reviewer: Why just 3? With hyper threading, it can still make use of partial cores even if some is occupied with general system stuff. Right?

Starting your `detect` run
===========================

::

    scan.detect(starttime, endtime)

`Detect` is called using this command and the waveform archive is scanned between the start and end time in chunks of length `timestep`. A log will be printed to `STDOUT` which summarises the chosen parameters for your run. As the calculation proceeds the chunk of time currently being analysed will be printed to the screen with the amount of time taken to perform the calculation for that chunk.

Common Errors
==============

The errors output from QuakeMigrate should be self-explanatory. See below for some of the specific errors associated with the `detect` stage.

`ArchiveEmptyException`
------------------------

> 

Reviewer: There are more - should cover them all if at all

This common error is output if your `Archive` object doesn't return any data for the time period requested. Check your data archive and time period requested.

Understanding the output from `detect`
======================================

`Detect` creates 3 output directories containing station availability data, logs and the primary output used for the subsequent `trigger` stage, the `scanmseed` object.

Station availability
--------------------

This is a .csv file created for each day requested and placed in the output directory in a folder named `detect/availability`. It is a simple csv file recording whether a station has data available and no gaps during each timestep. This can be used to quickly assess the configuration of your seismic network. 

::

    ,SKR01,SKR02,SKR03,SKR04,SKR05,SKR06,SKR07,SKG08,SKG09,SKG10,SKG11,SKG12,SKG13
    2014-06-29T18:41:55.000000Z,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,0,1,1,1,1
    2014-06-29T18:41:55.750000Z,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,0,1,1,1,1
    2014-06-29T18:41:56.500000Z,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,0,1,1,1,1

Logfile
--------

> The files in this directory store the screen output from each `detect` run.

Reviewer: If toggled on

`Scanmseed` object
-------------------

> The `scanmseed` object is the primary output from the `detect` stage and is used as the input for the `trigger` stage. It is a miniSEED object containing 5 traces with data at the same sample rate as requested for the input:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :class:`ScanmSEED` object is the primary output from the `detect` stage and is used as the input for the `trigger` stage. It is a miniSEED object containing 5 traces with data at the same sample rate as requested for the input:

1. The maximum coalescence value of the grid.
2. The maximum coalescence value of the grid normalised by the mean value of the entire grid
3. The X, Y and Z position of maximum coalescence

> By storing the output as a miniSEED object you can read the outputs using the same methods as for waveform data. For example, you can easily read and plot the coalesence function using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using the miniSEED file format it is possible to the outputs using the same methods as for waveform data. For example, you can easily read and plot the coalescence function using:
```

::

    from obspy import read

    st = read('path/to/file.scanmseed')
    print(st)

    5 Trace(s) in Stream:
    NW.COA..   | 2014-06-29T18:41:55.000000Z - 2014-06-29T18:42:20.498000Z | 500.0 Hz, 12750 samples
    NW.COA_N.. | 2014-06-29T18:41:55.000000Z - 2014-06-29T18:42:20.498000Z | 500.0 Hz, 12750 samples
    NW.X..     | 2014-06-29T18:41:55.000000Z - 2014-06-29T18:42:20.498000Z | 500.0 Hz, 12750 samples
    NW.Y..     | 2014-06-29T18:41:55.000000Z - 2014-06-29T18:42:20.498000Z | 500.0 Hz, 12750 samples
    NW.Z..     | 2014-06-29T18:41:55.000000Z - 2014-06-29T18:42:20.498000Z | 500.0 Hz, 12750 samples

    st[0].plot()

> By storing the data as miniSEED files, we not only make it easy to plot and manipulate the data using python libraries through obspy. We also can use miniSEEDs impressive compression routines to effciently store large volumes of data. To access this, we store values in the scanmseed object as integers. To return the values stored in the `scanmseed` object to the real values, divide the coalesence traces by 5 and the X, and Y traces by 6. The depth (Z trace) is stored to the nearest millimetre, the exact number to divide the output by will depend on your units.

Reviewer: Python is capitalised and I would personally capitalise ObsPy.

> By storing the data as miniSEED files, we not only make it easy to plot and manipulate the data using python libraries through obspy. We also can use miniSEEDs impressive compression routines to effciently store large volumes of data. To access this, we store values in the scanmseed object as integers. To return the values stored in the `scanmseed` object to the real values, divide the coalesence traces by 5 and the X, and Y traces by 6. The depth (Z trace) is stored to the nearest millimetre, the exact number to divide the output by will depend on your units.

Reviewer: On your choice of units for the lookup table.
